.. Fault Tolerance Library documentation Introduction file


Introduction
===================================================

In high performance computing (HPC), systems are built from highly reliable components. However, the overall failure rate of supercomputers increases with component count. Nowadays, petascale machines have a mean time between failures (MTBF) measured in hours or days and fault tolerance (FT) is a well-known issue. Long running large applications rely on FT techniques to successfully finish their long executions. Checkpoint/Restart (CR) is a popular technique in which the applications save their state in stable storage, frequently a parallel file system (PFS); upon a failure, the application restarts from the last saved checkpoint. CR is a relatively inexpensive technique in comparison with the process-replication scheme that imposes over 100% of overhead.

However, when a large application is checkpointed, tens of thousands of processes will each write several GBs of data and the total checkpoint size will be in the order of several tens of TBs. Since the I/O bandwidth of supercomputers does not increase at the same speed as computational capabilities, large checkpoints can lead to an I/O bottleneck, which causes up to 25% of overhead in current petascale systems. Post-petascale systems will have a significantly larger number of components and an important amount of memory. This will have an impact on the system’s reliability. With a shorter MTBF, those systems may require a higher checkpoint frequency and at the same time they will have significantly larger amounts of data to save. Although the overall failure rate of future post-petascale systems is a common factor to study when designing FT-techniques, another important point to take into account is the pattern of the failures. Indeed, when moving from 90nm to 16nm technology, the soft error rate (SER) is likely to increase significantly, as shown in a recent study from Intel. A recent study by Dong et al. explains how this provides an opportunity for local/global hybrid checkpoint using new technologies such as phase change memories (PCM). Moreover, some hard failures can be tolerated using solid-state-drives (SSD) and cross-node redundancy schemes, such as checkpoint replication or XOR encoding which allows to leverage multi-level checkpointing, as proposed by Moody et al.. Furthermore, Cheng et al. demonstrated that more complex erasure codes such as Reed-Solomon (RS) encoding can be used to further increase the percentage of hard failures tolerated without stressing the PFS.

FTI is a multi-level checkpointing interface. It provides an api which is easy to apply and offers a flexible configuration to enable the user to select the checkpointing strategy which fits best to the problem.
